.TH APPFORM-SDK 3 "2026-05-03" "jhinno-appform-sdk" "Python SDK Manual"
.SH NAME
appform-sdk \- Python SDK for Appform 6.0-6.6 API
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B from appform_sdk import AppformClient, Config
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B jhinno-appform-sdk
provides a complete Python client library for the Appform 6.0-6.6 API,
including job submission, session management, file operations,
and organization administration.
.SH QUICK START
.PP
.RS
.nf
client = AppformClient(
    base_url="https://your-server.com",
    verify_ssl=False
)
client.auth.login(username="user", password="pass")
jobs = client.jobs.list_jobs()
.fi
.RE
.SH CONFIGURATION
.PP
Configuration sources (highest to lowest priority):
.RS
.IP 1.
CLI arguments / direct parameters
.IP 2.
Environment variables
.IP 3.
Configuration file (~/.appform/config.json)
.RE
.PP
Environment variables:
.RS
.TP
.B APPFORM_BASE_URL
API base URL
.TP
.B APPFORM_ACCESS_KEY
Access key for authentication
.TP
.B APPFORM_ACCESS_KEY_SECRET
Access key secret
.TP
.B APPFORM_USERNAME
Username for authentication
.TP
.B APPFORM_PASSWORD
Password for authentication
.TP
.B APPFORM_TOKEN
Pre-existing authentication token
.TP
.B APPFORM_AES_KEY
AES encryption key for cluster token auth
.TP
.B APPFORM_TIMEOUT
Request timeout in seconds
.TP
.B APPFORM_VERIFY_SSL
Verify SSL certificates (true/false)
.TP
.B APPFORM_API_VERSION
API version (default: 6.5)
.TP
.B APPFORM_EXTENSIONS_DIR
Extension configuration directory
.TP
.B APPFORM_JOB_PROFILE_CONFIG
Job profile configuration file path
.TP
.B APPFORM_OUTPUT_FORMAT
Output format (json/table/text/raw)
.TP
.B APPFORM_OUTPUT_TEMPLATE
Output template file path
.TP
.B APPFORM_DEFAULT_REMOTE_PATH
Default remote path for file operations
.TP
.B APPFORM_CHUNK_SIZE
Upload/download chunk size (e.g., 100M)
.TP
.B APPFORM_DEFAULT_METHOD
Default transfer method for file operations (http/sftp)
.TP
.B APPFORM_SFTP_HOST
SFTP server hostname
.TP
.B APPFORM_SFTP_PORT
SFTP server port
.TP
.B APPFORM_SFTP_KEY_FILE
SSH private key file for SFTP
.TP
.B APPFORM_SFTP_KEY_PASSWORD
SSH key passphrase
.TP
.B APPFORM_HTTP_PROXY
Proxy URL for HTTP/HTTPS API requests (e.g., http://proxy:8080 or socks5://proxy:1080)
.TP
.B APPFORM_SFTP_PROXY
Proxy URL for SFTP/SSH connections (e.g., socks5://proxy:1080 or http://proxy:8080)
.TP
.B APPFORM_ENV
Target environment name to load from config file
.RE
.SH INSTALLED MODULES
.SS AppformClient
.PP
The main client class for interacting with Appform API.
.TP
.BI AppformClient(base_url=None, token=None, access_key=None, access_key_secret=None, username=None, aes_key=None, timeout=30, max_retries=3, verify_ssl=None, api_version=None, extensions_dir=None, config=None)
Initialize the Appform client. All parameters are optional; values can be provided via Config object or environment variables.
.TP
.B client.auth
Access authentication APIs (AuthAPI)
.TP
.B client.jobs
Access job APIs (JobsAPI)
.TP
.B client.sessions
Access session APIs (SessionsAPI)
.TP
.B client.files
Access file APIs (FilesAPI)
.TP
.B client.apps
Access application APIs (AppsAPI)
.TP
.B client.organization
Access organization APIs (OrganizationAPI)
.TP
.B client.registry
Access API endpoint registry
.TP
.B client.extension_manager
Manage dynamic extensions
.TP
.B client.token
Get or set authentication token
.TP
.BI client.get(path, **kwargs)
Make a GET request
.TP
.BI client.post(path, **kwargs)
Make a POST request
.TP
.BI client.put(path, **kwargs)
Make a PUT request
.TP
.BI client.delete(path, **kwargs)
Make a DELETE request
.TP
.BI client.call_endpoint(endpoint_name, path_params=None, **kwargs)
Call a registered endpoint by name
.TP
.BI client.register_endpoint(name, path, method="GET", description="", override=False)
Register a custom endpoint
.TP
.B client.close()
Close the HTTP session
.SS Config
.PP
Configuration manager with support for environment variables, config files, and direct parameters.
.TP
.BI Config(base_url=None, access_key=None, access_key_secret=None, username=None, password=None, token=None, aes_key=None, timeout=None, verify_ssl=None, api_version=None, extensions_dir=None, job_profile_config=None, output_format=None, output_template=None, chunk_size=None, config_file=None)
Create a configuration instance. Reads from config file if exists.
.TP
.B Config.from_env()
Create configuration from environment variables only
.TP
.BI Config.from_file(config_file)
Create configuration from a file
.TP
.B Config.get_default_config_path()
Return default config file path (~/.appform/config.json)
.TP
.B Config.get_default_extensions_dir()
Return default extensions directory (~/.appform/extensions)
.TP
.BI Config.save_config_file(...)
Save configuration to file
.TP
.B config.to_dict()
Convert configuration to dictionary (sensitive values masked)
.SS AuthAPI
.PP
Authentication operations (accessed via
.B client.auth
).
.TP
.BI client.auth.login(username, password)
Login with username and password. Returns response with token on success.
.TP
.BI client.auth.login_with_token(username=None, timeout=None)
Login using AES encrypted username token. Restricted to cluster environments only. Requires APPFORM_AES_KEY.
.TP
.BI client.auth.login_with_access_key(access_key, access_key_secret, username)
Configure AccessKey authentication for subsequent requests.
.TP
.B client.auth.logout()
Logout and invalidate current session.
.TP
.B client.auth.ping()
Test if service is accessible with current authentication.
.TP
.BI client.auth.register(username, chusername, password, phone=None, mail=None, dep=None, card=None)
Register a new user.
.TP
.B client.auth.is_authenticated()
Check if any authentication method is configured.
.TP
.B client.auth.is_token_authenticated()
Check if token authentication is active.
.TP
.B client.auth.is_access_key_authenticated()
Check if AccessKey authentication is configured.
.TP
.B client.auth.has_upload_permission()
Check if current user has upload permission.
.TP
.B client.auth.has_download_permission()
Check if current user has download permission.
.SS JobsAPI
.PP
Job management operations (accessed via
.B client.jobs
).
.TP
.BI client.jobs.submit(app_id, params)
Submit a new job.
.B app_id : Application ID.
.B params : Dict of job parameters (JH_CAS, JH_NCPU, etc.).
.TP
.BI client.jobs.submit_v2(app_id, params)
Submit a job using v2 API (6.6+). Uses JSON body instead of form-data.
.TP
.BI client.jobs.get_job(job_id)
Get detailed job information.
.TP
.BI client.jobs.list_jobs(page=1, page_size=20, name_filter=None, status_filter=None, app_name_filter=None, queue_filter=None, condition=None)
List jobs with pagination and optional filters.
Status values: RUN, PEND, UNKNOWN, PSUSP, USUSP, SSUSP, ZOMBI, DONE, EXIT.
.TP
.BI client.jobs.list_jobs_v2(page=1, page_size=20, condition=None)
List jobs using v2 API (6.6+).
.TP
.BI client.jobs.list_jobs_by_ids(job_ids)
Get multiple jobs by IDs.
.TP
.BI client.jobs.list_history(page=1, page_size=20, condition=None)
List historical jobs with pagination.
.TP
.BI client.jobs.stop(job_id)
Stop a running job.
.TP
.BI client.jobs.suspend(job_id)
Suspend a job.
.TP
.BI client.jobs.resume(job_id)
Resume a suspended job.
.TP
.BI client.jobs.requeue(job_id)
Requeue a job.
.TP
.BI client.jobs.batch_stop(job_ids)
Stop multiple jobs.
.TP
.BI client.jobs.batch_suspend(job_ids)
Suspend multiple jobs.
.TP
.BI client.jobs.batch_resume(job_ids)
Resume multiple jobs.
.TP
.BI client.jobs.batch_requeue(job_ids)
Requeue multiple jobs.
.TP
.BI client.jobs.delete_job(job_id)
Delete a job (6.6+).
.TP
.BI client.jobs.get_output(job_id)
Get job dynamic output.
.TP
.BI client.jobs.get_files(job_id)
Get job file list.
.TP
.BI client.jobs.get_history(job_id)
Get job history.
.TP
.BI client.jobs.get_batch_history(job_ids)
Get history for multiple jobs.
.TP
.BI client.jobs.connect(job_id)
Connect to a job's graphical session.
.TP
.BI client.jobs.get_form(app_id)
Get job submission form definition (6.6+).
.TP
.B client.jobs.get_tooltip()
Get job monitoring tooltip info (6.6+).
.TP
.B client.jobs.get_total_history_count()
Get total historical job count (6.6+).
.PP
Job status constants:
.RS
.TP
.B JobsAPI.STATUS_RUNNING
RUN \- Running
.TP
.B JobsAPI.STATUS_PENDING
PEND \- Pending
.TP
.B JobsAPI.STATUS_DONE
DONE \- Completed
.TP
.B JobsAPI.STATUS_EXIT
EXIT \- Exited
.TP
.B JobsAPI.STATUS_PSUSP
Pending suspended
.TP
.B JobsAPI.STATUS_USUSP
User suspended
.TP
.B JobsAPI.STATUS_SSUSP
System suspended
.TP
.B JobsAPI.STATUS_ZOMBI
Zombie
.TP
.B JobsAPI.STATUS_UNKNOWN
Unknown status
.RE
.SS SessionsAPI
.PP
Session management operations (accessed via
.B client.sessions
).
.TP
.BI client.sessions.start(app_id, start_new=None, cwd=None, work_file=None, param=None)
Start a new application session.
.B app_id : Application ID (e.g., "gedit", "xterm").
.TP
.BI client.sessions.start_v2(app_id, start_new=None, cwd=None, work_file=None, param=None)
Start a session using v2 API (6.6+). Returns both clientUrl and webUrl.
.TP
.BI client.sessions.list(session_ids=None, session_name=None)
Query sessions. When called without arguments, returns current user's sessions.
.TP
.BI client.sessions.list_all(page=1, page_size=20)
List all sessions across all users.
.TP
.BI client.sessions.connect(session_id)
Get session connection information.
.TP
.BI client.sessions.connect_and_launch(session_id, timeout=30)
Get connection info and auto-launch JHApp client. Checks local port 60540 for client availability.
.TP
.BI client.sessions.disconnect(session_id)
Disconnect a session.
.TP
.BI client.sessions.batch_disconnect(session_ids)
Disconnect multiple sessions.
.TP
.BI client.sessions.close(session_id)
Close (destroy) a session.
.TP
.BI client.sessions.batch_close(session_ids)
Close multiple sessions.
.TP
.BI client.sessions.share(session_id, usernames)
Share a session with other users.
.TP
.BI client.sessions.cancel_share(session_id)
Cancel session sharing.
.TP
.BI client.sessions.transfer_operation(session_id, username)
Transfer session operation to another user.
.TP
.BI client.sessions.webclient_connect(session_id)
Get web browser connection URL for a session.
.SS FilesAPI
.PP
File and directory operations (accessed via
.B client.files
). All file operations support
.B transfer_method="http"
(default, via API) or
.B transfer_method="sftp"
(direct file transfer).
.TP
.BI client.files.list(path="/", page=1, page_size=100, transfer_method="http")
List files in a remote directory.
.TP
.BI client.files.list_all(path="/", transfer_method="http")
List all files in a directory with automatic pagination.
.TP
.BI client.files.mkdir(path, force=True, transfer_method="http")
Create a remote directory.
.TP
.BI client.files.rename(old_path, new_name)
Rename a file or directory.
.TP
.BI client.files.copy(src_path, dest_dir, transfer_method="http")
Copy a file or directory.
.TP
.BI client.files.move(src_path, dest_dir, transfer_method="http")
Move or rename a file or directory.
.TP
.BI client.files.delete(path, transfer_method="http")
Delete a file or directory.
.TP
.BI client.files.cat(remote_path, head=None, tail=None, start=None, end=None, encoding="utf-8", all_lines=False)
Read selected lines from a remote text file (SFTP only).
.B head : lines from beginning.
.B tail : lines from end.
.B start/end : 1-based line range.
.B all_lines : force output all lines for large files.
.TP
.BI client.files.upload(file_path, remote_path, on_progress=None, chunk_size=104857600, transfer_method="http")
Upload a local file.
.B on_progress : callback(filename, bytes_read, total_bytes).
.TP
.BI client.files.upload_directory(local_dir, remote_dir, on_progress=None, check_exists=None, confirm=None, chunk_size=104857600, transfer_method="http")
Upload an entire directory recursively.
.TP
.BI client.files.download(remote_path, local_path=None, on_progress=None, chunk_size=104857600, transfer_method="http")
Download a remote file.
.B on_progress : callback(filename, bytes_downloaded, total_bytes).
.TP
.BI client.files.download_directory(remote_dir, local_dir, on_progress=None, chunk_size=104857600, transfer_method="http")
Download an entire remote directory recursively.
.TP
.BI client.files.compress(source_dir, target_path)
Compress a remote directory into an archive.
.TP
.BI client.files.uncompress(archive_path, dest_dir, password=None)
Uncompress a remote archive.
.TP
.B client.files.get_confidentiality_levels()
Get available file confidentiality levels.
.TP
.BI client.files.set_confidentiality(path, level)
Set file confidentiality level.
.TP
.B client.files.get_root_dir()
Get root directory information.
.PP
SFTP module (\fBclient.sftp\fP):
.TP
.BI client.sftp.tailf(remote_path, encoding="utf-8")
Run \fBtail -f\fP on a remote file via SSH exec channel. Streams output in
real-time and returns (tail_pid, channel) on exit. Requires
\fBpip install jhinno-appform-sdk[sftp]\fP.
.TP
.BI client.sftp.kill_tail(tail_pid)
Kill a tail process started by tailf() via a new SSH session.
.PP
SFTP configuration is optional. Install with:
.B pip install jhinno-appform-sdk[sftp]
.PP
When using SFTP, all file operations (ls, mkdir, cp, mv, rm, put, get, cat, tailf) work without the API gateway.
.SS AppsAPI
.PP
Application query operations (accessed via
.B client.apps
).
.TP
.B client.apps.list_all()
Get all application menus.
.TP
.BI client.apps.list_v2()
Get available compute, interactive, and web applications (6.6+).
.TP
.BI client.apps.get_url(app_name)
Get URL for a specific application.
.TP
.BI client.apps.get_form_params(app_id)
Get form parameters for a compute application.
.TP
.B client.apps.get_file_extensions()
Get file extension associations for graphical applications.
.SS OrganizationAPI
.PP
Department and user management (accessed via
.B client.organization
).
.TP
.B client.organization.get_departments()
Get department tree structure.
.TP
.BI client.organization.create_department(dep_name, dep_chname, parent_dep=None, description=None)
Create a new department.
.B dep_name : English name.
.B dep_chname : Chinese display name.
.TP
.BI client.organization.update_department(dep_name, dep_chname=None, parent_dep=None, description=None)
Update a department.
.TP
.BI client.organization.delete_department(dep_name)
Delete a department.
.TP
.BI client.organization.get_users(page=1, page_size=20, dep=None, username=None)
List users with optional filters.
.TP
.BI client.organization.create_user(username, chusername, password, dep=None, phone=None, mail=None, card=None)
Create a new user.
.TP
.BI client.organization.update_user(username, chusername=None, dep=None, phone=None, mail=None, card=None)
Update a user.
.TP
.BI client.organization.delete_user(username)
Delete a user.
.TP
.BI client.organization.reset_password(username, new_password)
Reset a user's password.
.SS AESEncryptor
.PP
AES encryption utility for token-based authentication.
.TP
.BI AESEncryptor(key=None)
Initialize with AES key. If None, reads from APPFORM_AES_KEY environment variable.
.TP
.BI encryptor.encrypt(plaintext)
Encrypt a string using AES/ECB/PKCS7. Returns base64+URL encoded ciphertext.
.TP
.BI encryptor.decrypt(ciphertext)
Decrypt a base64+URL encoded ciphertext string.
.TP
.BI encryptor.encrypt_username(username, timestamp=None)
Encrypt username with timestamp for token-based login.
.TP
.BI encryptor.decrypt_username(ciphertext)
Decrypt and extract username from encrypted token.
.SS SignatureGenerator
.PP
HMAC-SHA256 signature generator for AccessKey authentication.
.TP
.BI SignatureGenerator.generate_signature(access_key, access_key_secret, username, current_time=None)
Generate signature. Returns tuple (signature, current_time_millis).
.TP
.BI SignatureGenerator.generate_auth_headers(access_key, access_key_secret, username)
Generate authentication headers dict.
.SS check_cluster_environment()
.PP
Check if current node is in an HPC cluster environment. Verifies jversion command exists and current hostname appears in jhosts output.
.SH EXCEPTIONS
.TP
.B AppformError
Base exception for all SDK errors
.TP
.B AuthenticationError
Authentication failed or token expired
.TP
.B APIError
API returned an error response. Contains
.B status_code
and
.B response
attributes
.TP
.B ValidationError
Input validation failed
.TP
.B FileError
File operation failed
.TP
.B JobError
Job operation failed
.TP
.B SessionError
Session operation failed
.TP
.B SFTPError
SFTP operation failed
.TP
.B ComputeError
Compute node SSH operation failed
.SH EXAMPLES
.SS Job submission
.RS
.nf
from appform_sdk import AppformClient

client = AppformClient(
    base_url="https://your-server.com",
    access_key="YOUR_KEY",
    access_key_secret="YOUR_SECRET",
    username="your_username",
)

result = client.jobs.submit(
    app_id="fluent",
    params={
        "JH_JOB_NAME": "simulation_001",
        "JH_CAS": "/home/user/cases/test.cas",
        "JH_NCPU": "16",
        "JH_ITERATION": "1000",
        "JH_GUI_ENABLED": "off",
    },
)
print(f"Job ID: {result['data']}")

# List and monitor
jobs = client.jobs.list_jobs(status_filter=["RUN"])
print(f"Running jobs: {jobs['data']['total']}")

# Stop a job
client.jobs.stop("494825")
.fi
.RE
.SS Session management
.RS
.nf
client = AppformClient(base_url="https://your-server.com")
client.auth.login("user", "pass")

# Start a session
result = client.sessions.start(
    app_id="gedit",
    start_new=True,
    cwd="${HOME}",
)

# List current user sessions
sessions = client.sessions.list()

# Connect and auto-launch client
client.sessions.connect_and_launch(sessions["data"][0]["sessionId"])
.fi
.RE
.SS File operations
.RS
.nf
client = AppformClient(base_url="https://your-server.com")
client.auth.login("user", "pass")

# List directory
files = client.files.list(path="/home/user")

# Upload with progress
client.files.upload(
    file_path="./local_file.txt",
    remote_path="/home/user/",
    on_progress=lambda name, current, total:
        print(f"{name}: {current}/{total}"),
)

# Download
client.files.download(
    remote_path="/home/user/output.txt",
    local_path="./output.txt",
)
.fi
.RE
.SS Using Config
.RS
.nf
from appform_sdk import AppformClient, Config

# Load from config file (with environment)
config = Config(config_file="~/.appform/config.json", env="prod")
client = AppformClient(config=config)

# Or use environment variables
config = Config.from_env()
client = AppformClient(config=config)
.fi
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR appform (1),
.BR job_submit (1)
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.appform/config.json
Default configuration file
.TP
.I ~/.appform/extensions/
Default extensions directory
