.TH JOB_SUBMIT 1 "2026-05-03" "jhinno-appform-sdk" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
job_submit \- Universal job submission tool for Appform
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B job_submit
[OPTIONS] \-a APP [APP\-OPTIONS]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B job_submit
command is a universal job submission tool for Appform. It reads application
configurations from job_submit.yaml and provides application-specific parameter
handling with automatic Windows path conversion and local file upload.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-a , \-\-app APP
Select application type (required). Use
.B \-l
to list available applications.
.TP
.BI \-l , \-\-list\-apps
List all supported applications and exit.
.TP
.BI \-\-set KEY=VALUE
Override any JH_* parameter. Repeatable for multiple parameters.
.TP
.BI \-\-params JSON
Override parameters as a JSON string.
.TP
.B \-\-dry\-run
Show final parameters without submitting.
.TP
.BI \-\-upload\-path PATH
Remote directory for uploading local files. Default: $HOME/<YYYYMMDD_HHMMSS>/.
.TP
.BI \-u , \-\-username USER
Authentication username.
.TP
.BI \-p , \-\-password PASS
Authentication password.
.TP
.BI \-\-wait [MINUTES]
Wait for job completion after submission (default: poll every 10 min).
.TP
.BI \-e , \-\-env ENV
Target environment to load from config (or set APPFORM_ENV env var).
.TP
.B \-\-base\-url URL
API base URL (or set APPFORM_BASE_URL).
.TP
.B \-\-access\-key KEY
Access key (or set APPFORM_ACCESS_KEY).
.TP
.B \-\-access\-key\-secret SECRET
Access key secret (or set APPFORM_ACCESS_KEY_SECRET).
.TP
.B \-\-username USER
Username (or set APPFORM_USERNAME).
.TP
.B \-\-profile\-config FILE
Path to job profile configuration file (overrides APPFORM_JOB_PROFILE_CONFIG).
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Submit a Star-CCM+ job with remote file:
.RS
.nf
job_submit \\-a starccm \\-i /apps/project/file.sim \\-n 16
.fi
.RE
.PP
Submit with local file auto-upload:
.RS
.nf
job_submit \\-a starccm \\-i /local/file.sim \\-n 8
.fi
.RE
.PP
Upload to custom remote directory:
.RS
.nf
job_submit \\-a starccm \\-i /local/file.sim \\-n 8 \\-\\-upload\\-path /projects/job_data
.fi
.RE
.PP
Upload multiple files and directories:
.RS
.nf
job_submit \\-a fluent \\-i /local/case.cas /local/data.dat /local/mesh_dir/ \\-n 32
.fi
.RE
.PP
Submit a Nastran job:
.RS
.nf
job_submit \\-a nastran \\-\\-cas /path/to/test.bdf \\-\\-ncpu 16
.fi
.RE
.PP
Submit and wait for completion:
.RS
.nf
job_submit \\-a starccm \\-i /path/to/file.sim \\-n 8 \\-\\-wait
job_submit \\-a starccm \\-i /path/to/file.sim \\-n 8 \\-\\-wait 5
.fi
.RE
.PP
List available applications:
.RS
.nf
job_submit \\-l
.fi
.RE
.SH FILE UPLOAD
.PP
For
.B param_type: upload
parameters, files not in mapped remote paths are automatically uploaded
before job submission.
.PP
The
.B windows_disk_mapping
values (e.g. \fBS: -> /apps\fP) are used as remote path prefixes. Files
starting with these prefixes are treated as already on the server.
.PP
Upload rules:
.RS
.IP 1.
Check each upload-type parameter value
.IP 2.
Files under mapped paths (e.g. \fB/apps\fP, \fB/data\fP) are skipped
.IP 3.
Other files are uploaded to the target directory
.IP 4.
Parameter values are replaced with remote paths after upload
.RE
.PP
Upload target:
.RS
.IP \fB\fI\-\-upload\-path PATH\fP\fR :
Specified remote directory
.IP \fB(default)\fP :
\fB$HOME/<YYYYMMDD_HHMMSS>/\fP
.RE
.PP
The transfer method follows \fBAPPFORM_DEFAULT_METHOD\fP (http or sftp).
For SFTP, \fB$HOME\fP is resolved via SSH \fBecho ~\fP.
For HTTP, the server resolves \fB$HOME\fP.
.SH WINDOWS PATH CONVERSION
.PP
On Windows, disk paths are automatically converted using the
.B windows_disk_mapping
configuration in job_submit.yaml. Example configuration:
.RS
.nf
windows_disk_mapping:
  'S:': '/apps'
  'D:': '/data'
.fi
.RE
.PP
This converts paths such as
.B S:/project/file.sim
to
.B /apps/project/file.sim
before submission.
The conversion applies to all file-type parameters (\-i, \-\-cas, \-\-input, etc.).
.SH AUTHENTICATION
.PP
Priority (highest to lowest):
.RS
.IP 1.
\fB\-u/\-p\fP password auth (CLI arguments)
.IP 2.
Password from config file (~/.appform/config.json)
.IP 3.
AccessKey (config or environment)
.IP 4.
Token (config or environment)
.IP 5.
AES Token (cluster environment)
.RE
.SH CONFIGURATION FILE
.PP
The job profile configuration file (default: job_submit.yaml) defines
application-specific parameters. Common locations:
.RS
.IP 1.
Path specified via \-\-profile\-config
.IP 2.
Path from APPFORM_JOB_PROFILE_CONFIG environment variable
.IP 3.
Path from config file (~/.appform/config.json) field job_profile_config
.RE
.PP
Example job_submit.yaml:
.RS
.nf
default_app: starccm
windows_disk_mapping:
  'S:': '/apps'
  'D:': '/data'
applications:
  \- app_id: starccm
    name: Star\-CCM+
    parameters:
      \- name: JH_CAS
        cli_arg: input
        short_arg: 'i'
        required: true
        param_type: upload
        description: Case file path
      \- name: JH_NCPU
        cli_arg: ncpu
        short_arg: 'n'
        default: '2'
        param_type: string
        description: Number of CPU cores
.fi
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR appform (1),
.BR appform-sdk (3)
